# Apple to update it's data collection policies: Facebook Campaigns to users to allow them to collect their data.
In this document, I will be discussing two articles about Apple's new privacy policy that adds an additional firewall to protect users' data on apps from the app store and how these changes have caused Facebook to launch a new campaign that encourages users to accept data tracking/collecting from Facebook.
 
## Article 1
In Apple's, [User Privacy and Data Use](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/user-privacy-and-data-use/), developer blog outlining the update on app users' privacy and data collection, it carefully explains its new guidelines on how app owners can collect user data. The new policy requires all app developers to ask for explicit permission from the user before collecting any such data and also explain to the user the type of data they will be collecting. Apple has also been vigilant to dissuade app developers from trying to manipulate users into accepting their privacy agreement. Additionally, Apple now provides a fresh new interface to users to allow them to understand what type of data an app is collecting. This new policy doesn't come as a surprise to many people because new laws such as the EU's General Data Protection policy have begun to crack down on tech companies that collect user data without explicit consent. An extreme example of how user data has been used in the past is Facebook's controversial involvement in the 2016 U.S election, where data collected by Facebook was used to manipulate voters. Although now users have more digital freedom, other tech companies are arguing that lack of user data could mean small businesses will suffer more because they are unable to do targeted ads. 
 
## Article 2
CNN's article, [Facebook tries to remind users about benefits of data collection ahead of Apple privacy change]
(https://edition.cnn.com/2021/02/01/tech/facebook-transparency-alert/index.html), about Facebook's campaign to remind users the benefits of data collection is in response to the new privacy policy Apple will enforce in early 2021. Facebook makes nearly all of its revenue from advertising, specifically targeted advertising, which means that without user data their main source of income is in jeopardy. Facebook argues that this new requirement will be devastating to millions of small businesses that use their advertising services. This one of the main angles Facebook is using to persuade users to agree to data collection policy. However, some experts believe that Facebook's entire business model could be negatively impacted if users don't agree to the new policy, which is expected to be two thirds of all users. Facebook is also accusing Apple of using this new policy as a front to force popular apps to comply with stricter conditions whereas Apple can promote their own apps. However, Apple denies these allegations and will continue to enforce these new policies.

## Conclusion

I believe that Apple is making the right decision to restrict app developers from collecting user data because for far too long users have been manipulated to buy or do things that may not have been in the best interest of the user.Apple is being proactive to enforce greater privacy policies because governments are started to notice the direct affect that these tech companies can have on society if they reign freely. I suspect that other tech companies such as Google, Samsung, and others will follow suit. 
